Okay, we got them rolling again. Okay, go ahead. Okay, listen, regarding the
systemic shock again, there were just a couple specific questions on that book,
too, I had. Sandy, the little girl. Right. I took it that she befriended that
Russian boar creature, and I wondered if you could explain that. I wasn't quite
sure I'd caught it right. Well, yes, you did catch it right. It happens to be
the opinion of zoologists and animal husbandry folk that a pig next to a
chimpanzee is just about the most intelligent animal around. And we know that
other animals have adopted human beings, children, babies. We also know that
there are pigs that are real pets. They get to be pesky devils. In fact, one
science fiction writer, a lady named Finn Mason, has told about the pigs that
they used to have that were... Let's see, wait a minute. Is it Finn?
Maybe I misspoke myself. Let me start all over on that. Sure.
I have some information about animals that were... about pigs that were like
watch animals. They really did the job.
And when you find that pigs are that smart, and that they do sometimes really
like human beings, then I wondered how likely it would be that a huge Russian
boar might defend a tiny human being. Now, it's also true, and you probably know
that as well as I, that around Edwards Plateau there in south-central Texas,
there are Russian boars. Big ones. None of them anything like 1,000 pounds. But
having studied it, I found that the biggest Russian boar on record were
something like 550 pounds. And a Russian boar that big would be about the size
of, almost the size of a Shetland pony.
So it didn't seem to me so terribly unlikely that an extremely intelligent hog
might befriend a human being, especially if that human being were completely
without weapons of any kind.
Okay. Back earlier in the interview, you had mentioned the proportion between
entertainment and message. And in this particular book, I had a passage I'd
marked here that I want to ask you about. It seems to me that you are making
some comments, not only about the situation in the world, but some of the
dangers. Yeah. And the quote I'm referring to is about the Boy Scouts. To me,
you were paralleling the Boy Scout situation with the National one later. And
you say that placing oneself in a helpless position against known danger might
be an evil that generates its own punishment. Yes. Is that being applied to the
nations? Oh, yes. Any nation. Whether we're talking about an individual or a
nation or someone in business, I think it's a general truth. There might very
well be examples you can show where it doesn't generate its own punishment, but
often it does. I would say that when we're working together to help put the
American public more in thrall to petroleum-producing countries, that's an evil
that generates its own punishment.
Right. Okay. One more question on that book. I guess it's Quantrill. Yeah. Some
of your characters, I'm not sure what word I should use here, are almost what I
would call as a literature teacher sort of an anti-hero in the sense they're not
the normal moral white hat kind of characters. And I wonder, I don't know, why
does that, you're deliberately picking anti-hero types. Well, let's just say in
relation to Quantrill. I won't generalize beyond that. Okay. Well, I entirely
agree. Quantrill is not a hero. Quantrill is a youngster with some very unusual
characteristics. He has abilities that make him very likely to be useful for
assassin jobs and so forth. Does this make him a hero? Not by any means. I think
Frank Herbert had a very good idea a long time ago when he was talking about the
problems that the hero, the whole idea, hero, you know, generates a lot of
trouble. Lord, if it weren't for the heroes in this world, the world would
probably be a better place. Anyway, for all of his rare ability, Quantrill is
also a great potential to be misused. he is, he could be a great, metaphorically
speaking, you know, he could be a, an Olympic, an Olympic type pistol as a tool
or he could be a Saturday night special as a tool. He could be used well or he
could be grossly misused. And Quantrill is not a genius by any means. There are
lots and lots of flaws in the young man. and he is misused grossly for quite a
while. You can't really very much call a man like that a hero.
And I didn't. I wanted to show Quantrill with all of his, all of his foibles and
his failures. in the subsequent two books, the two sequels to Systemic Shop with
Quantrill, I carry Quantrill on through his developed bitterness at being
misused, his, his cynicism that really works against him as far as he and his
lover are concerned. He becomes cynical, becomes difficult to love anyone or to
trust anyone. And then in the third book, beginning to recognize necessarily
that you've got to abandon your youth before it abandons you. The guy who is,
for example, has always been a mountain climber and tries to jump a crevasse
that's 15 feet wide that he could easily jump five years ago and it does not
occur to him that maybe he can't jump it anymore. This is a man who has not
abandoned his youth but maybe it's abandoned him it could kill you. So,
recognizing the onset of age, abandoning your youth, you know, is a very
important survival skill. With all of these things, I don't really think we can
call Quantrill a hero. he's got too many flaws in him. He gets scarred up
because he learns the hard way. In short, he's very human. Okay, right. Listen,
I'm going to have to apologize here because you speak of sequels. I was trying
to run down everything you'd written and I couldn't find any sequels to that
book. Have they been published? No. The immediate sequel to Systemic Shock is
called Single Combat. Single Combat will be published by Tor Books next October.
It's already finished. They've had it for several months, but with scheduling
difficulties, it'll be next October before it hits the stand. There will be some
sketches inside the book showing hardware like what a hovercraft motorcycle
would look like. several other items that might be a little difficult to
visualize. I used preliminary design tactics to go back and sketch out some of
these things and have someone who is a fairly decent sketch artist to turn my
chicken scratchings into renderings.
About the third book, did you mention one there too? The third book, I am
writing now, and it's called Wild Country. It is generally about central, south,
Texas, and northern Mexico.
Okay, good. When I finished that book, I realized that there were, it seemed to
me that you had maybe left some open questions, some open things that might
generate a sequel. people. Oh, yes, very clearly. Okay, let me just wind down by
asking you some more general questions. I guess, do you have any particular
ideas or does it ever concern you about, say, the value of science fiction, its
importance? Yes, I'm, um, I consider it sometimes, but I'm not worried about it.
I'm not worried about it because I feel science fiction is probably the most
valuable fiction available to anyone today. Certainly, it's our buffer against
future shock if we'll only use it that way. It's an insulator, a lightning rod,
if you will. Science fiction does not have to be. but certainly can be a, uh, a
means of making you ready for the future before you find yourself suddenly in
it. I was writing about computers and people talking to computers and they're
talking back to them 25 years ago. Now I have a computer at home. If it had not
occurred to me 25 years ago that I really would have one at home, I would have
thought that was only for people like Howard Hughes. But sure enough, just about
everybody can have one today if you want one badly enough. Um, science fiction
has that very powerful value. It can also let you escape. It certainly can be
escape literature when you simply need that kind of, uh, entertainment.
Yeah, that's the kind of answer I was trying to get. I just phrased the question
awkwardly. Um, you made a reference a while ago in the interview. I want to
maybe ask it to you as a formal question. Um, why don't you consider writing
fantasy? I'm not really interested very much in writing about things
that I don't believe in. That is, that I do not believe possible. You know, I
would define fantasy as, uh, something that we know to be impossible. Now, of
course, there are some things that we quote, know, unquote, to be impossible
that turn out to be impossible after all. But to the degree that I believe them
to be impossible, then I believe making scenarios based on the impossible is one
definition of fantasy. And I have nothing against it or other people to do it.
Um, but there are so many issues, real issues, about important things, where I
think need to be struggled with that, uh, the leader, the public in general,
needs to struggle with these issues, with these real things. Uh, so much that I
don't really have the time for Never Never Land. It's here in now land, or soon
to come land, that I worry about a lot. I have children, I have grandchildren. I
worry about those people. I worry about what's going to happen to them. I don't
want the future to, uh, to spring on them like some great animal and, and, uh,
cut them all up. I would like us to be ready and armed for the unpleasant parts
of the future. And so, I don't feel that I have the time to spend, uh, on
fantasy. Does that make sense to you? Yeah, excellent. That's fine. Okay, I just
had about two more questions. And, uh, of the way the movies handle science
fiction. Do they do it fairly? Well, their, their, um, special effects do it
marvelously well. Their, um, the science is done very spotty. In 2001, it's very
difficult to find a flaw met. Yet in, um, in Star Wars, well, Star Wars is a
comic strip. It's a marvelous comic strip. And, uh, I've seen it before and I
will probably see it again. So I'm not saying that I don't enjoy it. I'm saying
that, uh, most movies do not deal very well with, uh, the rational likelihoods
of science. They deal very well, indeed, with all the special effects, the
visual, eye-popping stuff. There haven't been a whole lot of really, um, good
science fiction movies from the standpoint of, uh, of philosophy, uh, rational,
um,
just let me think about this for a minute. Okay.
I think that there's been very little really good speculation in movies,
scientific speculation. I think they do a whole lot better job of showing
spectacular visual effects than they do showing us the real likelihood of the
future based on our technology today.
Yeah, that's what most writers we talk to say about the same thing. Yeah, that
doesn't mean there can't be some really good ones once in a while. I, I was, um,
I was very taken by THX 1138. That was, to me, an excellently done movie. And,
relatively speaking, it cost about a nickel, you know. Yeah, I thought that, in
terms of what you've been saying about a movie with some thought behind it, I
thought Blade Runner had possibilities, but I don't think they brought them out
well enough. Did you see that one? Yes, I did. Well, it's a little hard to bring
them all out. If you ever read anything of Phil Dix, you know, he's dead now,
died recently. But, take any book and try to translate it into a two-hour movie,
and what you find is that you must first condense the book into a short story.
story. So there's just not room for an awful lot of expansion of ideas in a on
screen in the same way that you can do it in the book. There were, out of all
the books that I've written, I would say, I know that one has already been
looked at for a movie, is Anasazi. one movie company has studied that, and I
didn't really expect them to buy it, and they didn't. But, it would be much more
likely that someone would produce a mouth, that short piece about a madman that
gets hold of a tree harvesting machine in a collection of stories of mine. Now,
that's a very short story. You can get a little bit of technology about the
combining of solid state electronics and human synapses and so forth, about
putting all those together. But, it's short, it's brief, it does not go very far
afield, it's not all encompassing with some philosophy of science, it's just a
fast-paced story. That's the sort of thing that would make a two-hour movie.
Almost any of my books are the sort of books that would make a ten-hour movie.
And, there isn't just a whole lot of fall for a ten-hour movie. So, you mustn't
expect movies to do just a whole lot of justice to science. when the viewer, the
person that pays his ticket price, didn't come there to get informed about
science to begin with. They went there to see the light show. Right. Okay,
listen, you said you're working on that third book about Quantra Wild Country.
Is there anything else you're working on at the present time that you're
planning to write? Yeah, there's a short story that I'm doing that is one of the
theories. Some stories I've already done in Omni has to do with a grizzled old
semi-retired race car builder who occasionally is persuaded to build another
vehicle for a race of some sort just for the fun of it. And it's that kind of
meringue for me. I enjoyed
thinking of far-out ideas in race cars 20 years ago and I still get a lot of
mileage out of it writing it up in storage. So I'm doing that as a short story
and then I am writing Wild Country. Okay, just to make sure I have some of my
facts straight here, could you just off the top of your head, do you know how
many short stories of yours have been published? No, I don't. I would say
30 maybe. That's an article. Yeah, that's good enough. Okay. Listen, is there
anything else that you would like to say? Any kind of crusades or anything at
all? Well, I would say that there are a couple of themes that have occupied me a
lot. one of them other people have begun to come up to, begun to work on such
that I can move on to something else again. I would say that sensible
transportation, mass transit, cars that get 50 to 100 miles a gallon, things
like that, things that I was demonstrating, working on, building cars that got
50 miles a gallon 20 years ago when nobody else cared. it. Now, a lot of people
care, and now I'm not interested in it much anymore because it's already been,
not because of me, really, but for whatever reason, it has been taken up as an
important issue. The second thing along that line would be survival. Not only
nuclear survival, but various other kinds. I write in survival publication. I
design backpackers' wood stoves and all kinds of other gadgetry that would be
very useful in survival contexts. I've had to make my own snow shoes to get out
of the high Sierra one particular summer,
which was hardly like a summer at all. It was very late spring.
but survival, and particularly the nuclear Holocaust survival issue, is one that
I have dealt with for two or three years now. It is, again, of enough importance
that I'm moving on to something else now. And the thing that I'm moving on
toward is
what some people call the L5 situation or the L5 scenario. having to do with
habitats, with colonies literally built in space, so that we do not have to
live, all of us, on Earth permanently. Earth is a beautiful place, but if I had
a poor heart, it might be very nice to live in a little place kind of light
Earth except with only a third of our normal gravity, with trees and birds and
everything you do want, and no mosquitoes and no flowers,
leaving behind the things we don't want. I think that the human race's next
major frontier is in building habitats out beyond Earth's atmosphere. That is a
very important notion to me, and that's where I'm doing a lot of my thinking
today. Yeah, that's great. We're always tremendously impressed. We interview a
number of authors, of course, who've been doing this for some time. We're always
tremendously impressed with the, I guess, the renaissance attitude, the ability,
the, I don't know, the jack-of-all-trades, I guess, characters that science
fiction writers have, or the sharpest group of people that I think I know of.
Well, a lot of them are people who have succeeded or almost succeeded in a
number of areas. A lot of people who do things like what I do today are people
who are able to make a living, financially speaking, in some technological
arena, and got so goddamn drowned off at the way, at the stupid way where ideas
were used, misused, or not used at all, that they wanted to simply separate
themselves from it all. As a professor, I did not like to have to do things that
I thought were counterproductive to the students, for the benefit of some
administrator. In aerospace design, I really loathed having to design something
that I knew was not optimum. It had not been optimized because the man or the
agency that required whatever I was designing had made a stupid requirement.
Nothing could be more straightforward than that. It had made a requirement that
was counterproductive, silly, stupid. But you can't tell them that. You can if
you want them to go to somebody else. But if your company wants to be the
company that gets paid for doing this, then you're going to have to design it in
an inferior way. That's what the customer wants. That's enough to make me tear
my hair out, and that's why I started designing and building cars in my own lab
and new lubricants. I have a lubricant in the Magnum, one of my cars, in which
that oil hasn't been changed in 16 years. Would you characterize yourself as an
inventor? Well, sure. I've done it often enough, Lord knows. What I do, of
course, is to give away
ideas, but get paid for the articles that I write on them. I have long since
become cynical about the way
that our patent system works. That usually the guy who invents something is the
very last one to get anything out of it. You have to sign papers when you go to
work for a company that says everything you invent. Everything. 24 hours a day
belongs to the company. Even if you're working in a company that refines salt
and you invent a new hat pin, the salt company gets the hat pin. And you, as the
inventor, might or might not ever get something out of it after everybody else
has been paid off. I really despise that. So what I do is to find a magazine
somewhere that will pay me a thousand bucks for an article on it, and I get paid
off right now. And I make it the idea of public domain so that no one can ever
patent it, ever. work. Actually, that, as far as I'm concerned, is very much to
the point with the human race. It just doesn't let the managerial cadre get away
with all these things. The fiberglass rubit technique was something I gave away
and wrote in track about 12 or 14 years ago. Well, I guess you could also be
called a futurist then. Well, I have been. I've been called a number of things,
and futurist is one of the nicer ones. Okay, listen, Dr. Ring, I've taken enough
of your time. I've got to get ready for a class, too. I've got to teach in a
little bit. Listen, what we do is this. We're going to get a number of shows out
of this. Our show is on every day of the week for five minutes. It's a spot
show. So usually with an interview of this length, we're going to probably get
at least a week, maybe two out of it. I see. So what we do is, as I said, we'll
edit them and we'll send you the copies of the edited shows. Sure. Now, probably
there's going to be some lead time here. We're going to have to go about maybe,
we're going to have a couple weeks of repeats right over the Christmas holiday.
So I imagine it's going to be end of January, 1st of February before we get on
the air with these. Okay. So we'll send you copies about that time. As far as I
know, there is no station in your area that carries it. We only have, I think,
near 30 stations right now nationwide who have us. But there's some big
metropolitan areas, one in Cleveland and Detroit and some places like that. I
think we're in Sacramento, California, for instance, in places. But we're trying
to get to a sponsor, we're trying to get some more money so we can expand.
Right. But I checked, but as far as I know, there's no station in that part of
Oregon where you can pick it up. But you will have the copies of the tape. Good.
That's enough. And listen, I sure appreciate the time you've given us. Good,
Daryl. And we look forward to your future work. Well, thank you. Okay, then
take care. Okay. Thank you. Bye. Bye.